# Internationalization

This document covers internationalization and localization norms regarding Proto and how they should be applied in app design.

---

As Proto is designed to be used in a variety of languages and contexts, internationalization isn't optional—it's a design requirement.
All internationalized components should be:

1. Comprehensive
2. Correct
3. Context-Aware

The above list is ordered by importance.
These three 'C's are critical to ensure a consistent and well-designed user experience.

"Comprehensive" refers to the fact that *everything* needs to be internationalized, from icons to collation order.
If parts of the application are localized while others are not, this creates a sloppy and inconsistent user interface that will severely degrade an end user's experience.
When localizing parts of the app, it should be assumed that the audience using the localized version can only read in that language—there should not be any untranslated text fragments.

"Correct" means that translation accuracy is crucial to creating an understandable user interface.
Machine-translated text should be subject to heavy review and proofreading by end users before being deployed as official translations.
Supported locales should have correct spelling that matches local norms and be free of grammatical or semantic errors.

"Context-Aware" is a guiding principle for all parts of the user interface.
In the context of internationalization, it means that context should play a large role in determining how certain components are internationalized.
The same text, used in different locations, may have a completely different translation depending on the context.
Warning dialogs that are clear in one language should maintain that clarity in other languages, even if that means adding additional or supporting text.

## Locales

Supported locales are automatically displayed to the user when first opening the app.
The system locale should be selected by default but no further action should be taken until the user confirms this choice or changes the app locale.
When determining which locales to support, Proto considers the following things:

1. A locale is first and foremost a **language** identifier
    1. Written human languages should be the highest priority languages for app localization
2. In addition to a language identifier, a **region** identifier, often a country code, should be provided for international languages
    1. Does this language have a significant presence in at least two different regions?
        1. Yes → Continue
        2. No → A region identifier should not be added
    2. Do the regions where this language is spoken have differing dialects, spelling conventions, collation orders, date formats, etc.?
        1. Yes → Continue
        2. No → This does not constitute a distinct region
3. Lastly, for languages where this is unclear and there are multiple options, a **script** identifier should be provided
    1. Is this language typically written with at least two different scripts?
        1. Yes → Continue
        2. No → A script identifier is unnecessary
    2. Left-to-right (LTR) and right-to-left (RTL) scripts should be natively supported; vertical scripts are currently not supported (planned for general release)

### Currently Supported Locales

- English (en)
  - United States (US)
- Spanish (es)
  - Mexico (MX)
- Japanese (ja)
  - Japan (JP)
